Staff Selection Commission conducts various exams such as SSC CGL, SSC CHSL, SSC MTS, etc., and all these exams have QUANTITATIVE SECTION which includes a lot of questions based on complex calculations besides the conceptual ones. SSC CGL Exam 2020 has been notified and most of you must have started with the exam preparation. The most breathtaking section is QUANTITATIVE APTITUDE SECTION involving a lot of calculations and concepts which makes it a complex section. With the maximum time limit, it becomes difficult at times to make quick calculations and you tend to miss the questions which reduce your chances of qualifying the exam. QA is the scoring section and one can easily score high if one has good calculation speed. There are many topics such as NUMBER SYSTEM, SIMPLIFICATION, etc., which are based on basic concepts of ADDITION, SUBTRACTION, MULTIPLICATION, AND DIVISION. Such questions are asked with lengthy calculations and make the section scoring if you have good calculation speed.

Let us discuss some tips to enhance calculation speed to attempt QA Section effectively these are:

Master the basic concepts of Mathematics such as ADDITION, SUBTRACTION, MULTIPLICATION, AND DIVISION, as all the calculation is based on them. There are the direct questions asked on these applications involving complex and lengthy calculations therefore if you master them then the calculation becomes quicker and easier. You can save your time and utilize that time to solve questions involving concepts and verbal statements.
Learn tables by heart from 1 to 30 and square root and cube root tables till 20. It is a must and one can learn it by revising it daily. Make or buy tables and paste it or hang in your study room or near your study table so that revision becomes easy. Take as many questions as you can which are based on cube roots and square roots. It will help you learning tables while solving the questions.
Practice Mental Mathematics tricks
The students must use visualization skills to improve their calculation speed. They should habituate their brain to calculate without using pen and paper. It would decrease calculation time to the greatest extent. To boost mental mathematics, you should pick numbers randomly and do basic operations in mind. It can be done in daily life activities such as watching cricket matches, reading data and statistics of any company, etc. It is very necessary to always update yourself on SSC CHSL Exam 2020.

Learn tricks and practice them well
To make complex calculations simpler, it is very important to learn and remember short cuts and tricks. The usage of Vedic Mathematics will be very helpful to students and so they should try to learn and practice every important technique of it. The regular practice of these tricks will make calculations easier and accurate in the exam.

Take speed tests and improve by monitoring timer while solving the questions
Time Management Skills should be mastered to perfection. They play a decisive role in enhancing score and so their significance should never be undermined. The students should take speed tests regularly and try to monitor their speed of answering using a stopwatch. You are supposed to calculate the time taken to solve one question correctly. If it exceeds the limits then you should try to adopt a method where the question can be solved in limited time.

If you want to score well in the Quantitative Aptitude section of the SSC CGL exam then you have to improvise on your calculation speed. As it is the most challenging section of all and therefore it should be mastered properly to stay ahead in the competition. The learning of tables, short tricks and formula depends on your retention capabilities and grasping power. Therefore, the learning process should be regular and consistent and so should be practicing the problems based on them. To adopt a smart strategy in covering all the important topics or take SSC coaching classes in Chandigarh so as to score handsomely in the Quantitative Aptitude section of the SSC CGL exam. 

All the Best!!!
